President Barack Obama
Barack Obama is the 44th President of the United States. His story is the American story -- values from the heartland, a middle-class upbringing in a strong family, hard work and education as the means of getting ahead, and the conviction that a life so blessed should be lived in service to others.
 Barack H. Obama is the 44th President of the United States.

His story is the American story — values from the heartland, a middle-class upbringing in a strong family, hard work and education as the means of getting ahead, and the conviction that a life so blessed should be lived in service to others.

With a father from Kenya and a mother from Kansas, President Obama was born in Hawaii on August 4, 1961. He was raised with help from his grandfather, who served in Patton's army, and his grandmother, who worked her way up from the secretarial pool to middle management at a bank.

After working his way through college with the help of scholarships and student loans, President Obama moved to Chicago, where he worked with a group of churches to help rebuild communities devastated by the closure of local steel plants.

He went on to attend law school, where he became the first African-American president of the Harvard Law Review. Upon graduation, he returned to Chicago to help lead a voter registration drive, teach constitutional law at the University of Chicago, and remain active in his community.

President Obama's years of public service are based around his unwavering belief in the ability to unite people around a politics of purpose. In the Illinois State Senate, he passed the first major ethics reform in 25 years, cut taxes for working families, and expanded health care for children and their parents. As a United States Senator, he reached across the aisle to pass groundbreaking lobbying reform, lock up the world's most dangerous weapons, and bring transparency to government by putting federal spending online.

He was elected the 44th President of the United States on November 4, 2008, and sworn in on January 20, 2009. He and his wife, Michelle, are the proud parents of two daughters, Malia and Sasha.

Twin sisters, Obama on parallel paths for years


Retracing the steps of history, Eleanor Nordyke now realizes that she was in labor with twin daughters while Barack Obama, now the president-elect, was being born at what is now Kapi-'olani Medical Center for Women & Children.

The twins, Susan "Nunu" Bell and Gretchen "Nini" Worthington, were not only born in the same hospital hours after the future president, but also ended up in the same classes with Obama at Noelani Elementary School and later at Punahou School from the seventh grade to graduation in 1979.

"I think it was remarkable that they just so happened to be born within 24 hours of each other and grew up knowing each other," Nordyke said.

She did not know Obama's mother, Ann Dunham, while they were in labor together on Aug. 4, 1961, at the old Kapiolani Maternity and Gynecological Hospital.

But Nordyke was a population research fellow at the East-West Center while Dunham was there. And Nordyke later met Madelyn Dunham — Ann Dunham's mother and Obama's grandmother — during a cruise to Tahiti in 2002.

"She was placed at our table on the ship," Nordyke said. "She sat with us on that ship for three weeks. She told us that her daughter had passed away and that she had raised her grandson, and he was a social worker in Chicago."

When Obama was making his successful presidential run, Nordyke realized that her daughters were born within hours of him at the same hospital.

The Hawai'i certificate of live birth that Obama displays on his Web site shows he was born at 7:24 p.m. on Aug. 4.

Nordyke was well into labor by then with girls who were three weeks premature. By 2 p.m. the following day, Susan was born at 5 pounds, 12 ounces, and Gretchen weighed in at 6 pounds, 4 ounces.

As toddlers, the girls called each other "Nunu" and "Nini" "and the other children picked it up, and we held onto it all this time," Nordyke said.

With the names Nordyke and Obama, the twins were often pictured near Obama in their class yearbooks, their mother said.

The daughters now live on the Mainland, and neither returned repeated telephone messages seeking comment.

But one or both may return to Honolulu in June when their class celebrates its 30th reunion, Nordyke said.
